TCN CAE-Technologies and Systems

The use of computer-aided CAE tools in production shortens production times by reducing the number of prototypes 
and thus contributes to a significant cost reduction in overall development. Numerical calculations using the 
finite element method (FEM) are an effective tool for avoiding design errors as early as the draft phase, for 
designing components and parts and optimize them for specific applications. 

TCN CAE-Technologien+Systeme GmbH, a well-known CAE system house and authorized IBM business partner, has many 
years of experience in the field of computer-aided design and FEM calculations. The range of services offered 
extends from pure customer advice to a complete service, in which design, data conversion and FEM calculations 
are offered from a single source. 

Thanks to TCN's targeted range of services, small and medium-sized companies also have direct access
to field-proven calculation methods, the latest state-of-the-art CAE tools and proven 
“simulation know-how”. This means that this cost-intensive technology does not have to be stored in-house.

The use of an external calculation partner offers further significant company-related advantages, including 
calculable development costs with simultaneously reduced economic and technical risks, due to the elimination 
of additional investments and the necessary training period.

Calculation priorities
TCN specializes in the following areas of FEM:

- linear and non-linear strength problems
-- dynamic problems (modal analysis, transient behavior)
- heat transfer problems with fluid-mechanical coupling
-- coupled mechanical-thermal, 
-- piezoelectric problems
- shape and weight optimization under any restrictions

The focus of the project work is on interpreting the calculation results together with the customer and 
developing new proposals for solutions, which are then implemented in improved designs. TCN places
particular emphasis on absolute adherence to deadlines and a balanced price/performance ratio.

Fields of Application and Target Groups
Over the past few years, TCN has completed a wide range of projects in the automotive, mechanical engineering, 
construction, consumer goods, electronics, precision engineering, sensor technology, manufacturing and plastics 
technology sectors. Thanks to the numerous FEM calculation projects, TCN can draw on a wealth of experience
in numerical simulation and optimization.

Service Offerings
- Project work:
The problem analysis is carried out together with the customer, taking into account the technical constraints
in order to achieve an economical solution. As far as possible, parameterized FEM models are set up for
automatic optimization. If automation is not possible, manual parameter variations are carried out to gain
insights into the behavior of the component and to be able to evaluate it. The calculation is carried out 
either on a time and material basis or at a fixed price.

- Training and workshops:
• introductory courses (general FEM basics)
• special FEM advanced seminars
• individual “training on the job”
• program applications (CATIA-FEM, TCIGES)
• workshop: “Cost-effective use of CAE and FE methods”
• workshop: “Optimized CAD-FEM data transfer”
Further application-specific topics in consultation with the customer.

- Data transfer:
Transfer of geometry data from CAD drawings or importing and converting CAD models and subsequent 
processing of FEM calculation models with element meshing adapted to the problem.

Customer advice and support:
Introductory advice on the selection of CAE tools. On-site installation, support and telephone 
assistance make it easier for customers to get started and use these time- and training-intensive 
tools efficiently.

Tools used
On the one hand, proven CAD/CAM program systems such as CATIA(TM) and structural and
flow calculation programs (ANSYS, FLOTRAN). On the other hand, special programs are used that 
are developed and maintained in-house. The focus here is on the coupling of CAD and FEM programs 
with the help of standardized interfaces for data transfer (IGES, VDAFS and DXF). Furthermore, 
customer-specific programming work is carried out, for example, CAD and FEM program extensions.


Contact:
Dr.-Ing. A. Bakic, 0231/97 50 96-16
Dr.rer.nat. Th. Fabula, 0231/97 50 96-29


TCN CAE-Technologien + Systeme GmbH
Otto-Hahn-Str. 20
D-44227 Dortmund
Fax: 02 31/75 00 97


CATIA(R) : registered trademark of Dassault Systèmes
ANSYS(R), FLOTRAN(R): registered trademarks of ANSYS Inc.
